Cris, let’s see how we can manage
human capital, this is super broad,
but we need a method, a formula
that helps us to set goals,
evaluate, develop, help those who
reach those goals, this is
usually the Orthodox form,
that is, it includes many things,
because performance management,
development management, etc.,
but what we’re going to do
is a unique method, right?
That’s a process, we’ll explain
it as if it were an annual process,
well, we’ll call it the
employee cycle, well?
So this first process begins
with a phase that is the
setting of goals, right?
At the same time you set those
goals, you have to set some KPIs,
right? some measurement systems
of those goals to see that they
are improving and that they are
being met, right?
And how is this done?
This, when setting goals,
you have to follow the MARTE
rule, that is, a business goal
has to be measurable, right?
It cannot be etheric, it cannot be
anything generic because that leads
to frustration, to a dismotivation,
right? something you can’t
measure.
Then it has to be achievable, that
is, it has to, well, because being
realistic based on, heh, you don’t
ask for an impossible goal, right?
You have to be realistic and reckless,
right?
It can’t be something impossible, but
on the other hand it can’t be something
easy or that doesn’t mean, it doesn’
t have an impact on the
benefits, right?
It has to be fixed in
time, right?
You can’t set a goal without measuring,
that is, you have to tame
it and say, hear, this year we have
to do, then, a number of sales
or a number of products or a number
of things, right?
And then it has to be achievable,
what we said.
It can’t be something impossible because it’
s dismotivating, but it can’t be something
that doesn’t motivate you at a challenge
level, right?
That’s what common sense seems,
we always say, right?
It seems common sense.
The target is Mars and
everyone has heard
of it, Mars.
But it is that when the goals
are set, it is necessary to take
into account because many times
these requirements are not met
and at the end it is not
useful.
And then it also serves you a little
to be efficient, to have an organizational
and business efficiency,
right?
Because in the end only people
who are targeted are efficient
in their work because if
you don’t know what you have
to do, that is, you can be
wasting time and that means
a waste of money and time
for everyone that is not
efficient.
Working is not about doing tasks,
it is about contributing to business
goals and everything else is worthless.
Well, that’s a topic, that
is, the goals you set have to
be aligned with the strategic goals.
That is, they have to be based on
the position each occupies in the
organization, right?
And then they also have to comply
with the Mars rule, measurable,
reachable, challenging, timely
and specific, right?
That on one side.
The first step is the setting
of goals.
And how do we do it?
You meet with your colleagues
at the beginning of the
year, right?
One to one.
And set those individual
goals of each based on the
company’s goals and position.
Well, then I want to see some
example.
And you set the goals and set
the metrics or KPIs with which
we will follow up on those
goals.
actually is.
If you want, let us give examples.
For example, a salesman, because you
set him an annual sales target,
right?
With a KPI, logically, then of market
share, for example, what would be
the expected result, the KPI,
right?
This would be a goal of a sales
person, for example.
A human resource person,
for example.
Improve the working environment.
Well, then you have to design
a work climate survey to
launch employees.
That is the objective.
How will we measure it?
The launch of the survey,
that in addition the results
are favorable or there has been an
improvement would be a KPI, right?
For example, a human
resource person.
And then a person, for example,
customer service, right?
For example, the satisfaction
survey.
and exact.
For example, hear, then, that
90% of our customer satisfaction
surveys have a higher
rating to a specific score
this year, right?
That and, for example, the number
of calls, right?
That is, right?
To be clear and concrete,
right?
Those are the examples of three
different people in different departments,
right?
So once you have had that
meeting with your collaborator
to set their goals, in
that meeting you also have
to set some development
goals.
Why is?
Because you have to help your
collaborator those goals that you
have as a company and on an
individual level.
So, based on that, and I’ll explain
it with the examples we’ve
put, we set up a few development
goals, right?
Imagine, then, I, who am the
seller, have set me a few
sales goals, right?
I need to develop
my trading skills to
these sales goals.
It is a bit focused on overcoming
weaknesses or power.
It is to develop areas of improvement
that each person has.
We all have things to improve.
And what happens is that we
have to help our people focus
on those areas of improvement
to develop them and the
company’s goals.
That is, we will make individualized
development plans with each
of the people to the
business goals we have
set for them.
That is, that is.
These are development goals.
That is, they also have to be
measurable, attainable, challenging,
time-fixed and specific, right?
And we’ll follow the same measurement
system, so to speak, right?
Then we set business and
development goals at a
first meeting at the beginning
of the year.
Give them some example
of initiatives or development
plans to the goals
we have seen.
Is it true of the specific examples?
Yes, with any of them.
We talked about the seller,
right?
Yes, we said that he needed
to develop his negotiation skills.
well is.
We have provided a specialized
sales consultancy.
well is.
Or we send you for 15 days with another
seller that is very good at that,
for example.
For example, it may be.
Because in the end what we
also have to be clear when
designing development
plans is that people, there
is a rule that says that
people learn, 70% of the things
we learn we learn through
learning experiences.
It is good to do things.
20% of what we learn is learned
in the relationship with our
colleagues, managers, customers,
collaborators, which is learning
from others, so to speak.
And then 10% we learn it based
on traditional formations,
which can be the presence formations,
online, what is understood
by a training or
a specific course.
Then, depending on these modes
or learning opportunities,
you, based on the goal
you have of development, can
tell this seller, for example,
to go on a market visit with
the best seller you have
on your team.
So, for example, to learn from
the best.
Or even a sales consultancy.
Or, in addition, have meetings
with him to teach.
That is, these are different development
or learning actions that you
can design in that development plan.
Well, I’ll do a recapitulation.
First the meeting, we set a business
goal, validated with the
other person.
Everything is very well agreed, very consensual.
We set up KPIs, what metrics
we will use, what indicators
we will use to see if those
goals are achieved or not.
And then what we do is, we will
help you through development
plans or initiatives
to those goals.
Well, and that’s there, the meeting
ends, it’s signed...
In the end, it is a commitment
that you can sign.
Word, Excel, or whatever you want.
A document signed by both the
manager and the collaborator.
And what they do is, in a second phase
of the process, since a while has passed,
because that is already determined with
your manager or your collaborator.
That is, listen, because we
will be setting up to follow
up on this plan, either
quarterly or semi-monthly
or monthly.
That’s what you define with your employees.
This is the second meeting you have.
Follow-up and feedback.
Well, there are several of those.
The ones you set in the year.
Depending on the follow-up you want
to do, whether it is monthly, bimensional,
quarterly or semestral, there will
be a bit of a percentage of meetings
of that type.
So, in that meeting basically
is, with that template, you’
ll see how you’re
achieving the goals.
For what?
One of two.
Or to correct if there is any
goal that is not being met or to continue
motivating it to continue to
be achieved as is being demonstrated.
The same goes for development goals.
Hear, it turns out that you already
had that training in sales and now
we have noticed that, that you come
out with the best of the
sellers so that you learn.
The follow-up meeting is scheduled.
It is very logical.
At the end of the day, it is to see how things are going.
actually is.
It is a follow-up and feedback.
And then it would be the last meeting,
which is at the end of the year, which
is where all the annual performance
that the collaborator has had
is assessed, whether or not
the goals have been achieved.
And on the basis of that assessment,
the retroduction systems we
have talked about in other occasions,
such as a bonus or commercial
incentives, or a flexible
retroduction, will be
established.
and perfect.
It is an annual process in which
we set goals that must be aligned
with those of the company,
which must meet the criterion
that it is on Mars.
development plans to them.
And then what we do is be close
to the collaborators, because if
what you do is the first meeting,
then you forget for when
you come back.
There may have been so
much disconnect that it is...
It is important that feedback
is continuous.
Because you can’t wait until the
end of the year to give feedback to
your collaborator because you missed
a brutal opportunity or motivate
or correct it.
Then in the end, some inefficiencies
are lost, then feedback
has to be constant.
You can then formalize it or not
with this type of meetings, but
the feedback has to be constant.
It is that these things are done
well, it is that they must be done
well, that is, they cannot be done halfway.
Take time.
You can go to a busy businessman
and think that this
is a...
And at the end you don’t have time
and you know it would be fine, but you
leave it aside and so.
This is what happens to
many entrepreneurs.
But it is that in the end you have
to make an effort because both the
entrepreneur and his collaborators
interiorize this process.
Because that’s the only way
they get out naturally.
If you have to do this and
you have to...
This is not a human resource process,
this is a business process.
It is entirely strategic.
It is strategic.
Then you have to make your people
interiorize it so that that continuous
feedback is carried out because
it is the only way to your goals
and to improve and continue
to develop the business.
and perfect.
So much thanks.
It is fine, eh?